# Sengon-Gall-Rust-Disease

Details of the Disease

Sengon (Falcataria moluccana) has a high economical value in the community forest. It was planted by agroforestry
system that has various pattern. However, gall rust disease has caused severe damage to all growth stages. Each
agroforestry pattern has a different contribution on the development of gall rust disease. This research was aimed to
evaluate development of gall rust disease in various agroforestry pattern.

Sengon is fast growing species which has a high economical value. Nowdays, sengon is planted not
only in timber estate but also in community forest with agroforestry system. Agroforestry system
combines tress with crops. However, gall rust disease has caused severe damage to all growth stages. Gall
rust is caused by rust fungi, Uromycladium tepperianum. Epidemic of gall rust disease at sengon
especially in Java island makes productivity of sengon decrease. It is has influence on cultivation of
sengon and developing prospect of product which is based on sengon. Recently, cultivation of sengon increase 
rapidly but its management has not been optimally. On the other hand, management in
community forest is based on needs and habits of the owner. It makes various agroforestry pattern
because the principal of agroforestry management is resource sharing to get optimal yield. The different
agroforestry pattern with various species composer, especially in community forest which is based on
sengon will has influence on development of gall rust disease. Related to gall rust desease, each
agroforestry pattern gives different contribution for disease incidence and disease severity of gall rust
because of its enviromental factor. Development of gall rust disease is higher in low light intensity, high
relative humidity and low temperature. The environment has influence on mode of pathogen
dispersal, efficiency of pathogen survival, pathogen reproduction and level of aggresiveness of pathogen.
This research was aimed to evaluated development of gall rust disease in various agroforestry pattern. 

